.\" Process this file with 
.\" groff -man -Tascii sbsd.man
.\" 
.TH sbs.conf 5 "DEC 2007" "sbs.conf"
.SH NAME
Simple batch system (sbs) configuration.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The simple batch systems runs queues similiar to 
.B at (1)
and
.B atd (8).
Queues are created by 
.B sbsd -c -q QUEUE .
Every queue requires one running instance of 
.B sbsd (8).
.P
.B sbsd (8)
uses PAM to check if execution of jobs is allowed. 
.P
.B sbs (1) -q QUEUE 
checks the files 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs-QUEUE.allow
or 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs.allow
and
.I /etc/sbs/sbs-QUEUE.deny 
or 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs.deny.
.P
The format of the files is a list of usernames, one on each line.
Whitespace is not permitted.
.P
If
.I /etc/sbs/sbs-QUEUE.allow 
or 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs.allow exist
, only users mentioned in the first file found are allowed to use
.B sbs -q QUEUE.
.P
If neither 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs-QUEUE.allow 
nor 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs.allow exist
.I /etc/sbs/sbs-QUEUE.deny 
or 
.I /etc/sbs/sbs.deny 
are checked using the file first found.
.P
The superuser and the user owning sbs may always use 
.B sbs.

.SH FILES
.I /var/spool/sbs
The directory for creating queues. Queues created by 
.B sbsd -c -q queue
are created in this directory. 
.P
Every queue consist of a directory with the same
name as given during creation with the two sub directories:
.P
.I jobs
with owner daemon group daemon and mode 1770 containing the spooled jobs and
.P
.I spool
with owner daemon group daemon and mode 1770 containing the spool
files required by running jobs.
.P
.I /etc/sbs 
The directory containing the configuration files. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sbsd (8),
.BR sbs (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Dr. Axel Zeuner <axel dot zeuner at gmx de> using sources from
at/atrun of FreeBSD and ideas from at/atd.


