.\" Process this file with 
.\" groff -man -Tascii sbsd.man
.\" 
.TH sbsd 8 "DEC 2007" "sbsd"
.SH NAME
sbsd \- simple batch system daemon runs jobs from a queue or creates a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B sbsd -q queue [-t T] [-w W] [-a A][-d] [-n N] [-l L]
.P
.B sbsd -q queue [-w W] [-l L] -r 
.P
.B sbsd -q queue -c
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sbsd 
runs jobs queued by 
.B sbs (1) -q queue 
or creates a queue.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B -q " queue"
specifies the sbsd queue to run on,
.TP 
.B -w " W"
determines the count of parallel active jobs. The default value is 1.
.TP 
.B -t " T"
adjustes the polling interval in seconds for trying to start workers if
there are workers left from an already terminated sbsd daemon on the
same queue.
.TP 
.B -a " A"
activity interval of the queue, defaults to "00:00-24:00", i.e. the
queue is always ready to process jobs.
.TP
.B -n " N"
nice level of the started jobs. The default nice level is 19. Values
below zero are not supported.
.TP
.B -l " L"
determines the load average threshold. No jobs are started if the load
average of the system in the last minute was greater than this
threshold.
.TP
.B -d 
don't detach from terminal (default is to detach and run in the background).
.TP
.B -c 
creates a new queue.
.TP
.B -r 
execute a maximum of allowed workers jobs once.

.SH WARNING
.B sbsd 
won't  work  if  its  spool  directory  is mounted via NFS even if
no_root_squash is set.

.SH FILES
.I /var/spool/sbs
The directory for creating queues.
.P
.I /etc/sbs 
The directory containing the configuration files. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sbs (1),
.BR sbs.conf (4)


.SH AUTHOR
Dr. Axel Zeuner <axel dot zeuner at gmx de> using sources from
at/atrun of FreeBSD and ideas from at/atd.


